I pray you now,
good master Slender's serving-man,
and friend Simple by your name,
which way have you
looked for Master Caius,
that calls himself doctor of physic?
Marry, sir, the pittie-ward,
the park-ward, every way;
old Windsor way, and every way
but the town way.
I most fehemently desire you
you will also look that way.
I will sir,
'Pless me
how my heart trobs and trobs
how full of chollors I am,
and trempling of mind!
I shall be glad if he have deceived me.
How melancholies I am!
I will knog his urinals
about his knave's costard
when I have good opportunities
for the work.
'Pless my soul!
♪ To shallow rivers, to whose falls
Melodious birds sings madrigals;
There will we make our beds of roses,
And a thousand fragrant posies.
To shallow--♪
Mercy on me!
I have a great dispositions to cry.
♪ Melodious birds sing madrigals--
When as I sat in Pabylon--
And a thousand vagram posies.
To shallow rivers, to whose falls-♪
Yonder he is coming, this way, Sir Hugh.
He's welcome.
♪ To shallow rivers, to whose falls-♪
Heaven prosper the right!
What weapons is he?
No weapons, sir.
There comes my master,
Master Shallow, and another gentleman,
from Frogmore, over the stile, this way.
Pray you, give me my gown;
or else keep it in your arms.
How now, master Parson!
Good morrow, good Sir Hugh.
Keep a gamester from the dice,
and a good student from his book,
and it is wonderful.
Ah, sweet Anne Page!
'Save you, good Sir Hugh!
'Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
What, the sword and the word!
do you study them both, master parson?
And youthful still! in your doublet
and hose this raw rheumatic day!
There is reasons and causes for it.
We are come to you to do a good office,
master parson.
Fery well: what is it?
Yonder is a most reverend gentleman,
who, belike having received wrong
by some person,
is at most odds with his own gravity
and patience that ever you saw.
I have lived fourscore years and upward;
I never heard a man of his place,
gravity and learning,
so wide of his own respect.
What is he?
I think you know him; Master Doctor Caius,
the renowned French physician.
Got's will, and his passion
of my heart!
I had as lief you would tell me
of a mess of porridge.
Why?
He has no more knowledge
in Hibocrates and Galen,
--and he is a knave besides;
a cowardly knave
as you would desires
to be acquainted withal.
I warrant you,
here's the man should fight with him.
O sweet Anne Page!
It appears so by his weapons.
Keep them asunder: here comes Doctor Caius!
Nay, good master parson, keep in your weapon.
So do you, good master doctor.
Disarm them, and let them question:
let them keep their limbs whole
and hack our English.
I pray you, let-a me speak a word
with your ear.
Vherefore vill you not meet-a me?
Pray you, use your patience:
in good time.
By gar, you are de coward,
de Jack dog, John ape.
Pray you let us not be
laughing-stocks to other men's humours;
I desire you in friendship,
and I will one way or other
make you amends.
I will knog your urinals
about your knave's cockscomb
for missing your meetings and appointments.
Diable! Jack Rugby,
--mine host de Jarteer,
have I not stay for him to kill him?
have I not,
at de place I did appoint?
As I am a Christians soul now, look you,
this is the place appointed:
I'll be judgement by mine host
of the Garter.
Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul,
French and Welsh,
soul-curer and body-curer!
Ay, dat is very good; excellent.
Peace, I say! hear mine host
of the Garter.
Am I politic? am I subtle?
am I a Machiavel?
Shall I lose my doctor?
no; he gives me the potions
and the motions.
Shall I lose my parson, my priest,
my Sir Hugh?
no; he gives me the proverbs
and the no-verbs.
Give me thy hand, terrestrial; so.
Give me thy hand, celestial; so.
Boys of art, I have deceived you both;
I have directed you to wrong places:
your hearts are mighty,
your skins are whole,
and let burnt sack be the issue.
Come, lay their swords to pawn.
Follow me, lads of peace;
follow, follow, follow.
Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
O sweet Anne Page!
Ha, do I perceive dat?
have you make-a de sot of us,
ha, ha?
This is well;
he has made us his vlouting-stog.
I desire you that we may be friends;
and let us knog our prains together
to be revenge on this same scall,
scurvy cogging companion,
the host of the Garter.
By gar, with all my heart.
He promise to bring me
where is Anne Page; by gar,
he deceive me too.
Well, I will smite his noddles.
Pray you, follow.
(music)
Nay, keep your way, little gallant;
you were wont to be a follower,
but now you are a leader.
Whether had you rather lead mine eyes,
or eye your master's heels?
I had rather, forsooth,
go before you like a man
than follow him like a dwarf.
O, you are a flattering boy:
now I see you'll be a courtier.
Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?
Truly, sir, to see your wife.
Is she at home?
Ay; and as idle as she
may hang together, for want of company.
I think, if your husbands were dead,
you two would marry.
Be sure of that,--two other husbands.
Where had you this pretty weather-cock?
I cannot tell
what the dickens his name is
my husband had him of.
What do you call your knight's name, sirrah?
Sir John Falstaff.
Sir John Falstaff!
He, he; I can never hit on's name.
There is such a league
between my good man and he!
Is your wife at home indeed?
Indeed she is.
By your leave, sir:
I am sick till I see her.
Has Page any brains?
hath he any eyes?
hath he any thinking?
Sure, they sleep;
he hath no use of them.
Why, this boy will carry
a letter twenty mile,
as easy as a cannon
will shoot point-blank twelve score.
He pieces out his wife's inclination;
he gives her folly motion and advantage:
and now she's going to my wife,
and Falstaff's boy with her.
A man may hear this shower
sing in the wind.
And Falstaff's boy with her!
Good plots, they are laid;
and our revolted wives
share damnation together.
Well; I will take him,
then torture my wife,
pluck the borrowed veil of modesty
from the so seeming Mistress Page,
divulge Page himself
for a secure and wilful Actaeon;
and to these violent proceedings
all my neighbours shall cry aim.
(Clock chimes)
The clock gives me my cue,
and my assurance bids me search:
there I shall find Falstaff:
I shall be rather praised for this than mocked;
for it is as positive
as the earth is firm
that Falstaff is there: I will go.
Well met, Master Ford.
Trust me, a good knot:
I have good cheer at home;
and I pray you all go with me.
I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
And so must I, sir:
we have appointed to dine
with Mistress Anne,
and I would not break with her
for more money than I'll speak of.
We have lingered about a match
between Anne Page
and my cousin Slender,
and this day we shall have our answer.
I hope I have your good will, father Page.
You have, Master Slender;
I stand wholly for you:
but my wife, master doctor,
is for you altogether.
Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me:
my nursh-a Quickly tell me so mush.
What say you to young Master Fenton?
he capers, he dances,
he has eyes of youth,
he writes verses,
he speaks holiday,
he smells April and May:
he will carry't, he will carry't; '
tis in his buttons;
he will carry't.
Not by my consent, I promise you.
The gentleman is of no having:
he kept company with the wild prince
and Poins;
he is of too high a region;
he knows too much.
No, he shall not knit a knot
in his fortunes
with the finger of my substance:
if he take her,
let him take her simply;
the wealth I have waits on my consent,
and my consent goes not that way.
I beseech you heartily,
some of you go home with me to dinner:
besides your cheer,
you shall have sport;
I will show you a monster.
Master doctor, you shall go;
so shall you, Master Page;
and you, Sir Hugh.
Well, fare you well:
we shall have the freer wooing
at Master Page's.
Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.
Farewell, my hearts:
I will to my honest knight Falstaff,
and drink canary with him.
I think I shall drink in pipe wine first with him;
I'll make him dance.
Will you go, gentles?
Have with you to see this monster.
(music)
What, John! What, Robert!
Quickly, quickly! is the buck-basket--
I warrant. What, Robert, I say!
Here, set it down.
Come, come, come.
Give your men the charge;
we must be brief.
Marry,
as I told you before, John and Robert,
be ready here hard by
in the brew-house:
and when I suddenly call you,
come forth,
and without any pause or staggering
take this basket on your shoulders:
that done, trudge with it
in all haste,
and carry it among the whitsters
in Datchet-mead,
and there empty it  -- in Datchet-mead --
in the muddy ditch close
by the Thames side.
You will do it?
I ha' told them over and over;
they lack no direction.
Be gone, and come when you are called.
Here comes little Robin.
How now, my eyas-musket!
what news with you?
My master, Sir John,
is come in at your back-door, Mistress Ford,
and requests your company.
You little Jack-a-Lent,
have you been true to us?
Ay, I'll be sworn.
My master knows not
of your being here
and hath threatened to put me
into everlasting liberty
if I tell you of it;
for he swears he'll turn me away.
Thou'rt a good boy:
this secrecy of thine
shall be a tailor to thee
and shall make thee a new doublet
and hose. I'll go hide me.
Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.
Mistress Page, remember you your cue.
I warrant thee;
if I do not act it, hiss me.
Go to, then:
we'll use this unwholesome humidity,
this gross watery pumpion;
we'll teach him to know turtles from jays.
Have I caught thee,
my heavenly jewel?
Why, now let me die,
for I have lived long enough:
this is the period of my ambition:
O this blessed hour!
O sweet Sir John!
Mistress Ford, I cannot cog,
I cannot prate, Mistress Ford.
Now shall I sin in my wish:
I would thy husband were dead:
I'll speak it before the best lord;
I would make thee my lady.
I your lady, Sir John!
alas, I should be a pitiful lady!
Let the court of France
show me such another.
I see how thine eye
would emulate the diamond:
thou hast the right arched beauty
of the brow that becomes the ship-tire,
the tire-valiant, or any tire
of Venetian admittance.
A plain kerchief, Sir John:
my brows become nothing else;
nor that well neither.
By the Lord,
thou art a tyrant to say so:
thou wouldst make an absolute courtier;
and the firm fixture of thy foot
would give an excellent motion
to thy gait
in a semi-circled farthingale.
I see what thou wert,
if Fortune,
not Nature were thy friend.
Come, thou canst not hide it.
Believe me, there is no such thing in me.
What made me love thee?
let that persuade thee
there's something extraordinary in thee.
Come, I cannot cog
and say thou art this and that,
like a many of these lisping hawthorn-buds,
that come like women in men's apparel,
and smell like Bucklersbury in simple time;
I cannot: but I love thee;
none but thee; and thou deservest it.
Do not betray me, sir.
I fear you love Mistress Page.
Thou mightst as well say
I love to walk by the Counter-gate,
which is as hateful to me
as the reek of a lime-kiln.
Well, heaven knows how I love you;
and you shall one day find it.
Keep in that mind; I'll deserve it.
Nay, I must tell you, so you do;
or else I could not be in that mind.
Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford!
here's Mistress Page at the door,
sweating and blowing and looking wildly,
and would needs speak with you presently.
She shall not see me:
I will ensconce me
behind the arras.
Pray you, do so:
she's a very tattling woman.
What's the matter? how now!
O Mistress Ford, what have you done?
You're shamed, you're overthrown,
you're undone for ever!
What's the matter, good Mistress Page?
O well-a-day, Mistress Ford!
having an honest man to your husband,
to give him such cause of suspicion!
What cause of suspicion?
What cause of suspicion!
Out pon you! how am I mistook in you!
Why, alas, what's the matter?
Your husband's coming hither, woman,
with all the officers in Windsor,
to search for a gentleman
that he says is here now in the house
by your consent,
to take an ill advantage of his absence:
you are undone.
'Tis not so, I hope.
Pray heaven it be not so,
that you have such a man here!
but 'tis most certain your husband's coming,
with half Windsor at his heels,
to search for such a one.
I come before to tell you.
If you know yourself clear,
why, I am glad of it;
but if you have a friend here convey,
convey him out.
Be not amazed;
call all your senses to you;
defend your reputation,
or bid farewell
to your good life for ever.
What shall I do?
There is a gentleman my dear friend;
and I fear not mine own shame
so much as his peril:
I had rather than a thousand pound
he were out of the house.
For shame!
never stand 'you had rather'
and 'you had rather:'
your husband's here at hand,
bethink you of some conveyance:
in the house you cannot hide him.
O, how have you deceived me!
Look, here is a basket:
if he be of any reasonable stature,
he may creep in here;
and throw foul linen upon him,
as if it were going to bucking:
or--it is whiting-time
--send him by your two men to Datchet-mead.
He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?
Let me see't, let me see't,
O, let me see't!
I'll in, I'll in.
Follow your friend's counsel. I'll in.
What, Sir John Falstaff!
Why, Sir John!
Is this your love? Are these your letters, knight?
I love thee,  none but thee.
Help me away.
Let me creep in here.
I'll never--
Help to cover your master, boy.
Call your men, Mistress Ford.
What, John! Robert! John!
You dissembling knight!
Go take up these clothes here quickly.
Where's the cowl-staff?
look, how you drumble!
Carry them to the laundress in Datchet-mead;
quickly, come.
Pray you, come near:
if I suspect without cause,
why then make sport at me;
then let me be your jest;
I deserve it.
How now! whither bear you this?
To the laundress, forsooth.
Why, what have you to do
whither they bear it?
You were best meddle with buck-washing.
Buck! I would I could wash myself
of the buck!
Buck, buck, buck!
Ay, buck; I warrant you, buck;
and of the season too, it shall appear.
Gentlemen, I have dreamed to-night;
I'll tell you my dream.
Here, here, here be my keys:
ascend my chambers;
search, seek, find out:
I'll warrant we'll unkennel the fox.
Let me stop this way first.
So, now uncape.
Good Master Ford, be contented:
you wrong yourself too much.
True, Master Page.
Up, gentlemen:
you shall see sport anon:
follow me, gentlemen.
This is fery fantastical humours
and jealousies.
By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France;
it is not jealous in France.
Nay, follow him, gentlemen;
see the issue of his search.
Is there not a double excellency in this?
I know not which pleases me better,
that my husband is deceived, or Sir John.
What a taking was he in
when your husband asked who was in the basket!
I warrent he will have need of washing;
so throwing him into the water
will do him a benefit.
Hang him, dishonest rascal!
I would all of the same strain
were in the same distress.
I think my husband
hath some special suspicion
of Falstaff's being here;
for I never saw him so gross
in his jealousy till now.
I will lay a plot to try that;
and we will yet have more tricks
with Falstaff:
his dissolute disease
will scarce obey this medicine.
Shall we send that foolish carrion,
Mistress Quickly, to him,
and excuse his throwing into the water;
and give him another hope,
to betray him to another punishment?
We will do it:
let him be sent for to-morrow,
eight o'clock, to have amends.
I cannot find him:
may be the knave bragged
of that he could not compass.
Heard you that?
You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
Ay, I do so.
Heaven make you better than your thoughts!
Amen!
You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford.
Ay, ay; I must bear it.
If there be any body in the house,
or in the chambers,
or in the coffers,
or in the presses,
heaven forgive my sins
at the day of judgment!
By gar, nor I too:
there is no bodies.
Fie, fie, Master Ford!
are you not ashamed?
What spirit,
what devil suggests this imagination?
I would not ha' your distemper
in this kind for the wealth
of Windsor Castle.
'Tis my fault, Master Page:
I suffer for it.
You suffer for a bad conscience:
your wife is as honest a 'omans
as I will desires among five thousand,
and five hundred too.
By gar, I see 'tis an honest woman.
Well, I promised you a dinner.
Come,
come, walk in the Park:
I pray you, pardon me;
I will hereafter make known to you
why I have done this.
Come, wife; come, Mistress Page.
I pray you, pardon me;
pray heartily, pardon me.
Let's go in, gentlemen;
but, trust me, we'll mock him.
I do invite you to-morrow morning
to my house to breakfast:
after, we'll a-birding together;
I have a fine hawk for the bush.
Shall it be so?
Any thing.
If there is one, I shall make two
in the company.
If dere be one or two,
I shall make-a the turd.
Pray you, go, Master Page.
I pray you now, remembrance tomorrow
on the lousy knave, mine host.
Dat is good; by gar,
with all my heart!
A lousy knave,
to have his gibes and his mockeries!
We'll leave a proof
by that which we will do
wives may be merry, and yet honest too!
I see I cannot get thy father's love;
Therefore no more
turn me to him, sweet Nan.
Alas, how then?
Why, thou must be thyself.
He doth object
I am too great of birth--,
And that, my state being gall'd
with my expense,
I seek to heal it only by his wealth:
Besides these,
other bars he lays before me,
My riots past, my wild societies;
And tells me 'tis a thing impossible
I should love thee but as a property.
May be he tells you true.
No, heaven so speed me
in my time to come!
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
Was the first motive
that I woo'd thee, Anne:
Yet, wooing thee,
I found thee of more value
Than stamps in gold
or sums in sealed bags;
And 'tis the very riches of thyself
That now I aim at.
Gentle Master Fenton,
Yet seek my father's love;
still seek it, sir:
If opportunity and humblest suit
Cannot attain it,
why, then,--hark you hither!
Break their talk, Mistress Quickly:
my kinsman shall speak for himself.
I'll make a shaft
or a bolt on't: 'slid, '
tis but venturing.
Be not dismayed.
No, she shall not dismay me:
I care not for that,
but that I am afeard.
Hark ye; Master Slender
would speak a word with you.
I come to him.
This is my father's choice.
O, what a world
of vile ill-favor'd faults
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a-year!
And how does good Master Fenton?
Pray you, a word with you.
She's coming; to her, coz.
O boy, thou hadst a father!
I had a father, Mistress Anne;
my uncle can tell you good jests of him.
Pray you, uncle,
tell Mistress Anne the jest,
how my father stole two geese
out of a pen, good uncle.
Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
Ay, that I do; as well as I love
any woman in Gloucestershire.
He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
Ay, that I will, come cut
and long-tail,
under the degree of a squire.
He will make you a hundred
and fifty pounds jointure.
Good Master Shallow,
let him woo for himself.
Marry, I thank you for it;
I thank you for that good comfort.
She calls you, coz: I'll leave you.
Now, Master Slender,--
Now, good Mistress Anne,--
What is your will?
My will! 'od's heartlings,
that's a pretty jest indeed!
I ne'er made my will yet,
I thank heaven;
I am not such a sickly creature,
I give heaven praise.
I mean, Master Slender,
what would you with me?
Truly, for mine own part,
I would little or nothing with you.
Your father and my uncle
hath made motions:
if it be my luck, so;
if not, happy man be his dole!
They can tell you how things go better than I.
You may ask your father; here he comes.
Now, Master Slender:
love him, daughter Anne.
Why, how now!
what does Master Fenton here?
You wrong me, sir,
thus still to haunt my house:
I told you, sir,
my daughter is disposed of.
Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
Good Master Fenton, come not to my child.
She is no match for you.
Sir, will you hear me?
No, good Master Fenton.
Come, Master Shallow;
come, son Slender, in.
Knowing my mind,
you wrong me, Master Fenton.
Speak to Mistress Page.
Good Mistress Page,
for that I love your daughter
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
Perforce, against all cheques,
rebukes and manners,
I must advance the colours of my love
And not retire:
let me have your good will.
Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
I mean it not; I seek you a better husband.
That's my master, master doctor.
Alas, I had rather be set quick
i' the earth
And bowl'd to death with turnips!
Come, trouble not yourself.
Good Master Fenton,
I will not be your friend nor enemy:
My daughter will I question
how she loves you,
And as I find her, so am I affected.
Till then farewell, sir:
she must needs go in;
Her father will be angry.
Farewell, gentle mistress: farewell, Nan.
This is my doing, now: '
Nay,' said I,
'will you cast away your child on a fool,
and a physician?
Look on Master Fenton:' this is my doing.
I thank thee; and I pray thee,
once to-night
Give my sweet Nan this ring:
there's for thy pains.
Now heaven send thee good fortune!
A kind heart he hath:
a woman would run
through fire and water
for such a kind heart.
But yet I would my master
had Mistress Anne;
or I would Master Slender had her;
or, in sooth,
I would Master Fenton had her;
I will do what I can for them all three;
for so I have promised,
and I'll be as good as my word;
but speciously for Master Fenton.
Well, I must of another errand
to Sir John Falstaff
from my two mistresses:
what a beast am I to slack it!
(music)
Bardolph, I say,--
Here, sir.
Go fetch me a quart of sack;
put a toast in't.
Have I lived to be carried in a basket,
like a barrow of butcher's offal,
and to be thrown in the Thames?
Well, if I be served such another trick,
I'll have my brains ta'en out and buttered,
and give them to a dog
for a new-year's gift.
The rogues slighted me into the river
with as little remorse
as they would have drowned
a blind bitch's puppies,
fifteen i' the litter:
and you may know by my size
that I have a kind of alacrity
in sinking;
if the bottom were as deep as hell,
I should down.
I had been drowned,
but that the shore was shelvy
and shallow,--a death that I abhor;
for the water swells a man;
and what a thing should I have been
when I had been swelled!
I should have been a mountain of mummy.
Here's Mistress Quickly, sir,
to speak with you.
Let me pour in some sack
to the Thames water;
for my belly's as cold
as if I had swallowed snowballs
for pills to cool the kidneys.
Call her in.
Come in, woman!
By your leave; I cry you mercy:
give your worship good morrow.
Take away these chalices.
Go brew me a pottle of sack finely.
With eggs, sir?
Simple of itself;
I'll no pullet-sperm in my brewage.
How now!
Marry, sir,
I come to your worship from Mistress Ford.
Mistress Ford!
I have had enough of ford;
I was thrown into the ford;
I have my belly full of ford.
Alas the day! good heart,
that was not her fault:
she does so take on with her men;
they mistook their erection.
So did I mine,
to build upon a foolish woman's promise.
Well, she laments, sir, for it,
that it would yearn your heart to see it.
Her husband goes this morning a-birding;
she desires you once more
to come to her between eight and nine:
I must carry her word quickly:
she'll make you amends, I warrant you.
Well, I will visit her:
tell her so;
and bid her think what a man is:
let her consider his frailty,
and then judge of my merit.
I will tell her.
Do so. Between nine and ten, sayest thou?
Eight and nine, sir.
Well, be gone: I will not miss her.
Peace be with you, sir.
I marvel I hear not of Master Brook;
he sent me word to stay within:
I like his money well. O, here he comes.
Bless you, sir!
Now, master Brook,
you come to know what hath passed
between me and Ford's wife?
That, indeed, Sir John, is my business.
Master Brook, I will not lie to you:
I was at her house the hour she appointed me.
And sped you, sir?
Very ill-favoredly, Master Brook.
How so, sir?
Did she change her determination?
No, Master Brook;
but the peaking Cornuto her husband,
Master Brook,
comes me in the instant of our encounter,
after we had embraced,
kissed,
protested,
and, as it were,
spoke the prologue of our comedy;
and at his heels a rabble of his companions,
thither provoked and instigated
by his distemper, and,
forsooth, to search his house
for his wife's love.
What, while you were there?
While I was there.
And did he search for you,
and could not find you?
You shall hear.
As good luck would have it,
comes in one Mistress Page;
gives intelligence of Ford's approach;
and, in her invention
and Ford's wife's distraction,
they conveyed me into a buck-basket.
A buck-basket!
By the Lord, a buck-basket!
crammed me in with foul shirts and smocks,
socks, foul stockings,
greasy napkins;
that, Master Brook,
there was the rankest compound
of villanous smell that ever offended nostril.
And how long lay you there?
Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook,
what I have suffered to bring this woman
to evil for your good.
Being thus crammed in the basket,
a couple of Ford's knaves,
his hinds,
were called forth by their mistress
to carry me in the name of foul clothes
to Datchet-lane:
they took me on their shoulders;
met the jealous knave their master
in the door,
who asked them once or twice
what they had in their basket:
I quaked for fear,
lest the lunatic knave
would have searched it;
but fate, ordaining
he should be a cuckold, held his hand.
Well: on went he for a search,
and away went I for foul clothes.
But mark the sequel, Master Brook:
I suffered the pangs
of three several deaths;
first, an intolerable fright,
to be detected
with a jealous rotten bell-wether;
next, to be compassed,
in the circumference of a peck,like a good bilbo,
hilt to point, heel to head;
and then, to be stopped in,
like a strong distillation,
with stinking clothes that fretted
in their own grease:
think of that,
--a man of my kidney,
--think of that,
--that am as subject
to heat as butter;
a man of continual dissolution
and thaw:
it was a miracle to scape suffocation.
And in the height of this bath,
when I was more than half stewed in grease,
like a Dutch dish,
to be thrown into the Thames,
and cooled, glowing hot,
in that surge, like a horse-shoe;
think of that,
--hissing hot,
--think of that, Master Brook.
In good sadness,
I am sorry that for my sake
you have sufferd all this.
My suit then is desperate;
you'll undertake her no more?
Master Brook,
I will be thrown into Etna,
as I have been into Thames,
ere I will leave her thus.
Her husband is this morning
gone a-birding:
I have received from her
another embassy of meeting;
'twixt eight and nine is the hour,
Master Brook.
'Tis past eight already, sir.
Is it?
I will then address me to my appointment.
Come to me at your convenient leisure,
and you shall know how I speed;
Adieu.
You shall have her, Master Brook;
Master Brook, you shall cuckold Ford.
Hum! ha! is this a vision?
is this a dream?
do I sleep?
Master Ford awake! awake, Master Ford!
there's a hole made
in your best coat, Master Ford.
This 'tis to be married!
this 'tis to have linen and buck-baskets!
Well, I will proclaim myself
what I am:
I will now take the lecher;
he is at my house;
he cannot 'scape me;
'tis impossible he should;
he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse,
nor into a pepper-box:
but, lest the devil that guides him
should aid him,
I will search impossible places.
Though what I am I cannot avoid,
yet to be what I would not
shall not make me tame:
if I have horns to make one mad,
let the proverb go with me:
I'll be horn-mad.
(music)